آدم = Adam

----

!References 
!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

144. ADAM (PBH) 2:31 (م د ا)

All human beings have been create d from one male and one female 49:13 Adam and his wife Hawwa (PBT) 7:27, 4:1. Allah (SWT) taught Adam (PBH) the names of all things i.e. imparted knowledge to him 2:31, blew into him from His spirit 15:29 and made the angels (or in charges of energies) to bow down before him. Iblis, a Jinn 18:50, did not bow down before him considering himself superior to him, Adam was created from clay (matter) and Iblis from fire (energy) 7:11-12. Adam (PBH) was warned that the devil (Iblis) is an enemy of man and he may drive him and his wife out of the comfortable garden 20:117 where Adam and Hawwa (PBT) were asked to stay but with the prohibition of going near a particular tree 2:35. Adam (PBH) not only forgot this prohibition but also had no determination in him 20:115 and was therefore misled by the devil who deceived and tempted them both to eat from the forbidden tree, stating that Allah (SWT) had forbidden that tree because both of them would become angels or immortals after eating from it. They thus fell into the trap and ate from the tree on account of which their shame became manifest to them and they started covering themselves with the leaves of the garden. Before eating from the tree they were not conscious of their shame probably like animal s. Due to their disobedience they were sent out of the garden probably with the curse that some of you will be the enemies of others 7:20-25. Then on their repentance Allah (SWT) forgave them and communicated to them that guidance to lead life in the earth would come to them from Him, so whoever follows this guidance he will neither have fear nor grief and those who reject it will be the inmates of hell 2:37-39. Thus Adam (PBH) and his progeny were made successors or rulers of the earth 2:30, 6:166 to establish the legislation of Allah (SWT) which came from time to time through different messengers sent to different nations. The final Divine message containing laws to establish the kingdom of Allah (SWT) was the Holy Quran and the last messenger of Allah (SWT) Muhammed (PBH) 33:40 was sent to the whole mankind till the end of this world. 

The descendants of Adam (PBH) i.e. human beings other than Adam and Hawwa (PBT) were created from Turab, Nutfa, Alaqa 22:5 and sulaalatim-min-tiin 23:12. 

Turaab is the top soil 2:264 and sulaalatim-min-tiin means something taken out from clay probably meaning plant nutrients. We eat plants as well as the cattle who also eat plants. This food supplies the material for the synthesis of sperm and egg in man and woman respectively. Creation of man from the soil and extraction from clay would mean the material from which the sperm and egg were created and on which human beings depend for their later survival too. 

How were the first human beings Adam and Hawwa, the first parents created? The answer to this question is given in the Quran as follows : - “............ and He (Allah) began the creation of man (Insaan i.e. Adam) from clay (tiin) then made his progeny from something taken out (sulaalah) from the (seminal) fluid (which is) weakened after vigor (sperm and egg)” 32:7-8. 

“O mankind! fear your Fosterer Who created you from a single soul (Adam) and created from it, its mate (Hawwa) and spread from these two many men and women” 4:1. 

It is clear that creation of Ad am and Hawwa (PBT) was not from the sperm and egg as in the case of their progeny. The creation of Adam (PBH) was from clay 38:71, mud 15:28 et c. These facts indicate that Adam (PBH) did not have parents like us . It is very clear from the Quran that Allah (SWT) adopts two methods in bringing things into existence. 
1. Through gradual and progressive change s as in the case of the birth of normal human beings 22:5, 23:12-14 and 2. Abrupt or instantaneously a) Creation of a snake from the wood en staff of Musa (PBH) 7:107-108 b) Creation of a live bird from the form a bird molded in clay (tiin), a miracle performed through Isa (PBH) 3:44-49 c) transformation of sinning human beings into apes and pigs 2:65, 5:60, 7:166. 

These abrupt changes are known as ‘Miracles’ because they appear to be against all known laws of nature. Miracles are performed only by Allah (SWT) mostly through his messengers, for whom they are proofs of their messengership. No one else can perform such miracles going against the laws of nature except Allah (SWT) who has not only framed these laws but can also break them, its a challenge and a miracle cannot be explained scientifically. The birth of normal human beings is in accordance with normal laws of nature framed by Allah (SWT). It is possible that Adam (PBH) was create d from mud, clay etc. like the live bird created from clay through Isa (PBH) 3:45-49. The creations of Adam and Hawwa (PBT) appears to be miracles defying all the known laws of nature as we have understood them. Isa (PBH) was created without a father 3:47, Adam and Hawwa (PBH) appear to have been created without a father and a mother. This is not difficult for Allah (SWT) because He is All powerful 2:20 and when He intends anything He just says ‘Be’ and it is 16:40. Adam and Hawwa (PBT) were asked to go down (Ahbituu) from the garden 2:38. Words associated with ‘Ahbituu’ are used in the Quran for going down of someone by himself or falling down of something by itself from a higher place on earth to a lower level on earth itself 2:61, 2:74, 11:48. Therefore the garden referred to above appears to have been on earth itself but at a higher altitude. The garden from which Adam and Hawwa (PBT) were sent down appears to be different from the garden of paradise because it is presently unseen 19:61. 
 
In view of this it appears that Adam (PBH) was created from clay (tiin) fraction of the mud (salsaal) taken from the top soil (turaab) of the earth. If the verses 20:55, 53:32 and 71:17-18 in which the creation, production and growth of mankind from earth is mentioned, also includes Adam (PBH), it further supports the assumption that Adam (PBH) was created from the material belonging to the earth and the garden from which he was sent out along with Hawwa (PBH) was also on earth. 

Allah (SWT) has not mentioned clearly the manner in which He created Adam and Hawwa (PBT), and we cannot know it unless He informs us 2:255. He has kept it a secret . It is therefore better to leave it as secret compared to making erratic guesses. He said, ‘Be’ and they were there 2:117, 16:40. 
