اسجدوا = bersujudlah kamu

----

!References 
!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

150. ISJUDUU (Bow down or prostrate) 2:34 (د ج س)

Whoever and whatever is in the skies and the earth bows down (Yasjuduu) before Allah (SWT) willingly or unwillingly and their shadows too in the morning and evening 13:15. The sun, moon, stars, mountain, trees 55:6, living beings and many human beings also bow down before Allah (SWT) 22:18 along with angels and they fear their Fosterer above them and do what they are command 16:49-50 i.e. follow the laws of nature laid down by Allah (SWT) for them to follow.

According to the known laws of nature opaque bodies have to cast their shadows, the sun, moon and stars have to move in their orbits performing their duties, the plants and animals have to follow the laws of birth, growth, decay and death laid down by Allah (SWT) for their peaceful existence. Divine revelations, the final form of which is the Holy Quran, contain laws for the peaceful existence of human beings. ‘Sajdah’ could therefore be defined as following the laws of Allah (SWT) exhibiting submission and reverence to Him. Our sajdah in salat is the exhibition of our submission and reverence to Allah (SWT) in accordance with the laws laid down in the Quran and illustrated by prophet Muhammed (PBH). The opposite feeling is conveyed when one considers oneself great 16:49. We should not prostrate before the sun or the moon but we should prostrate before Allah (SWT) Who created them 41:37 as we do during salat 4:102. 

The bowing down of angels before Adam (PBH) does not appear to be due to reverence but a symbolic representation of energies being made submissive to mankind. The bowing down of eleven planets, the sun and the moon before Yusuf (PBH) in his dream 12:4 and later of his family; 12:100 appear to be symbolic and traditional respectively. Sajdah is associated with glorification of Allah (SWT), 7:206, recitation of the Quran 84:21, repentance, worshipping and praising Allah (SWT) fasting, enjoining good, forbidding evil and keeping within the limits set by Allah (SWT) 9:112, believers are ordered to perform sajdah and worship 22:77. 

The word ‘Masjid’ means the place/time for performing ‘Sajdah’. We are ordered to set right our attention at every place/time of prostration (i.e. salat) and pray to Allah (SWT) making religion exclusively for Him 7:29 and also to take care of our adornments while  going to the mosques 7:31. Mosques are Allah’s (SWT) so we are not to pray to anyone else along with Him 72:18. The most unjust are those who prevent people from the mosques of Allah (SWT), that His name should be remembered there and strive to ruin them. In fact they should enter them in fear 2:114. Polytheists and infidels are not to visit the mosques of Allah (SWT) 9:17. Allah (SWT) has blessed the precincts (neighborhood) of Masjid-il-aqsa in Jerusalem 17:1. We are required to turn our faces towards the direction of Masjid-il-Haraam i.e. Kaaba in Mecca wherever we are 2:144. It may be noted that we face towards the Kaaba but bow before Allah (SWT) 41:37. 

