الحمد = pujian

----
!References
----
!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN

4. Al-HAMD (The praise) 1:1 (دم ح)	ُﺪْﻤَﺤﻟَا


It is very clearly hinted in the Holy Quran 3:188 that He only should be praised who does something good. It is Allah (SWT) Who does everything therefore, all praise is due only to Him 1:1. ‘Al’ translated as ‘the’ also conveys the sense of ‘all’ . Allah (SWT) initiated the creation of the universe 35:1, 2:117. He fosters it and everything in it belongs to Him 34:1 therefore everything praises Him 17:44. 

Al-Hamd, at some places in the Holy Quran conveys the sense of ‘thanks’ 7:43, 14:39, 23:28 and 27:15. All thanks are also due only to Him because He does everything for us . Those who do not thank Him by praising Him exhibit ingratitude and pride 31:12, 32:15. Allah (SWT) does not like these qualities in His servants 39:7, on the contrary He orders:

“Put your trust in the Living Who does not die and glorify (Him) by praising Him (thanking Him) ... 25:58 

Other words associated with ‘Hamd’ are the Attributes of Allah (SWT)Al-Hamiid 2:267 meaning Praiseworthy, Ahmad 61:6 and Muhammed (PBH) 3:144 the names of the last messenger of Allah (SWT) meaning one who is praised, Mahmuud 17:79 meaning praised. 

----

!!Dictionary Of The Holy Qur'an, by Abdul Mannan Omar

-- Page 135 -- 

Hamida ?????? ???????????????????????? To praise for, equite for. Hamdun ?????: True praise. This word not only embodies the idea of thankfulness but also has reference to the intrinsic qualities of the object of praise. Hamd is always true and used only about such acts as are volitional. It also implies admiration, magnifying and honouring of the object of praise, humility and submissiveness in the person who offers it. Hamd is a praise which is offered in appreciation of commandable action of one worthy of praise. It also includes lauding one who has done a favour of his own volition and according to his own choice. It is not only a true praise but also an admiration. The word Shukr (???? - Thanks) differs from Hamd in the sense that its application is restricted to beneficent qualities and praise. The word Madha (???????- Gratitude) differs from Hamd in the sense that it also applies to involuntary beneficence. The word Hamd is much much more comprehensive than Shukr, Madha and Thanâ??? (R; T; L; LL). Thus Hamd is the most appropriate word to be used when a reference to the intrinsic goodness of Allâh and extreme loveliness in the person who offers it is intended, instead of any other word which is used in varying significance in the sense of praise and thankfulness. In common use, the word Hamd has come to be applied exclusively to Allâh. The word Hamd also conveys that Allâh combines all kinds of glorification in His Being and is unique in all His beauties and bounties. He is sublime; His glory is free from any defect and is not subject to any change, and is immune from all afflictions and drawbacks. He is perfect, the glorious and subject to no limitation. To Him is due all praise in the beginning and in the end through eternity. It also declares that Allâh is the Being Whose attributes are beyond computation and Whose excellencies cannot be numbered, and Who combines in His Being all beauty, bounty and glory. Reason is not able to conceive of any good which is not comprehended among Divine attributes. It also connotes that all excellencies belong to Him as a matter of right, and that every type of praise whether relating to external aspects or internal realities is due exclusively to Him. 

The word Hamd is used in the chapter Al-Fâtihah both in the active and the passive sense. That is, it is used both for the subject and the object, and signifies that God receives perfect praise and also bestows it. The attribute Rahmân signifies that the word Hamd is used in the active sense and the attribute Rahîm signifies that it is used in the passive sense. It is because of this that the Holy Prophet, peace and blessings of Allâh be upon him, so is Muhammad and Ahmad (Nooruddîn). Hâmid ???? One who praises. Hamîd ???: Worthy of praise. Ahmad ??? Most praiseworthy; Renowned; Name of the Holy Prophet . Muhammad ????: Name of the Holy Prophet , Much praised, Highly lauded. Mahmûd ????: Praised. Lauded.

Yuhmadû/Yuhmadûna ???????? / ????????? (acc./ n. d. pip. 3rd p. m. plu.): They are praised. Hâmidûn ????????(act. pic. m. plu.): Those who praise (Allâh). Hamdun ??????? (v. n.): Praise. Al-Hamdu ??????? All types of perfect and true praise. Hamîd ??? (act. 2nd. pic. m. sing.): Praiseworthy. One of the names of Allâh. Ahmad ????? : The praised on. Proper name of the Holy Prophet , (61:6). Mahmûd ?????? (pact. pic. m. sing.): Praised. Muhammad ??????(pis. pic. V): Praised one. Name of the Holy Prophet , (3:144; 47:2; 48:29). (L; T; R; LL)

The root with its above forms has been used in the Holy Qur’ân about 68 times.