الرحمن = Maha Pemurah
الرحيم = Maha Penyayang

----

!References

----

!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN
 
2. AR - RAHMAAN, (The Beneficent)
   AR - RAHIIM (The Merciful)

These Attributes of Allah exhibit ‘Rahmat’ which according to the Holy Quran includes in it: worldly provisions necessary to keep human beings alive 17:100 & 30:50; appointment of night for rest and day for earning livelihood 28:73; compassion and mercy towards parents 17:24 love and tranquility derived from mates 30:21; the Quran 17:82; prophet Muhammed (PBUH) 21:107; paradise 45:30; forgiveness of sins 39:53 etc. Rahmat is an item of enjoyment opposite to loss 7:23, punishment 6:15 - 16 harm 30:33; evil 30:36; destruction 67:28 etc. 

Rahmat being constructive, beneficial, full of mercy etc. is also supported by the fact that the Arabic word for ‘womb’ is Rahm 3:6 from the same root alphabets used for Rahmaan, Rahiim and Rahmat. The child in the womb is provided with all that is necessary for its growth through the mother and is carefully protected from all harmful things. The feeling of the mother towards the child is that of compassion, beneficence, mercy, safety etc. and these feelings further explain the term Rahmat about which Allah (SWT) states in the Holy Quran :- 

“He has prescribed Rahmat on Himself” 6:12 “My Rahmat extends over everything” 7:156 
The Attribute of Allah (SWT) associated with the revelation and teaching of the Holy Quran is ‘Ar-Rahmaan’ 41:2 and 55:1-2 and implementing the Holy Quran in accordance with the instructions given by prophet Muhammed (PBH) is the greatest benefit for us in the life of this world and the hereafter. The Attribute associated with the fostering of the universe which is beneficial for it is again ‘Ar-Rahmaan’ 
78:37 Many more examples can be cite d to show that the Attribute Ar- Rahmaan is associated with beneficence. 

The frequent association of the Attribute Ar-Rahiim with Al- Gafuur (Protector and Forgiver of sins), At-Tawwaab (Accepter of repentance) and Ar Rauuf (One full of pity) indicates that Allah’s (SWT) Mercy is exhibited through His Attribute Ar-Rahiim. The Attributes Ar-Rahmaan and Ar-Rahiim associated with Allah’s (SWT) name thus convey the sense that He is ‘The Beneficent and the Merciful’ respectively Allah’s (SWT) beneficence appears to be an expression of His Mercy for His creation. 

----

!!Dictionary Of The Holy Qur'an, by Abdul Mannan Omar

-- Page 205 --

Rahima ??????? ??????????????????????????? To love, have tenderness, have mercy, pity, forgiveness, show goodness, favour, have all that is required for exercising beneficence. Turhamûna ????????????: You shall be treated with love and mercy, etc. Rahmatun ???? Love and mercy etc. Arham ????? compar. form: Most loving. Arhâm ?????? comm. gender plu. of Rahimun ?????? and Rihmun ??????: Womb; Relationship. Ruhmun ??????: Love and mercy etc. Râhimun ???????: One who loves and is merciful etc. Rahmân ?????: It is active participle noun in the measure of Fa‘lân which conveys the idea of fullness and extensiveness and indicates the greatest preponderance of the quality of love and mercy which comprehends the entire universe without regard to our effort and asking even before we are born. The creation of the sun, the moon, air and water etc., all are there because of this attribute. Rahîm ????: The ever merciful etc. It is in the measure of Fa‘îl. This measure denotes the idea of constant repetition and giving of liberal reward to those who deserve it and seek of it. The manifestation of this attribute is in response to and is a result of the action of the human being. So the Rahîm means extremely and continuously loving and merciful and dispenser of grace and love as a result of our deeds and supplications, and one in whom the attribute is constantly and excessively repeated. Rahmân and Rahîm are both active participle nouns of different measures. These are names, attributes or epithets applied to Allâh, denoting intensiveness of significance. Arabic extensiveness is more suited to express God’s attributes than the superlative degree. The Holy Prophet has expressed the meaning of Rahmân and Rahîm by saying that the attribute Rahmân generally pertains to this life. His mercy and love is manifested in the creation of the universe. He is the bestower of gifts which precede our birth. While the attribute Rahîm generally pertains to the life to come and His love and mercy are manifested in the state that comes after. He causes good results to follow on good deeds and would not nullify and render void anyone’s right work (Muhît). The term Rahmân circumscribes the quality of abounding Grace inherent in and inseparable from the concept of Almighty, whereas Rahîm expresses the continuous manifestation of that Grace in and its effect upon us and is an aspect of one's activity (Ibn Qayyim). Rahmân and Rahîm are not the repetition of one and the same attribute for the sake of emphasis but are two different attributes. Ruhamâ’ ?????? is the plu. of Rahîm. Marhamatun ?????: Love; Mercy, etc. 

Rahima ?????? (prf. 3rd. p.m. sing.): He has mercy and love. Rahimta ???????? (prf. 2nd. p.m. sing.): Thou had mercy. Rahimnâ ????????(prf. 1st p. plu.) We have mercy. Yarhamu ??????? (imp. 3rd p.m. sing. nom.): He shows mercy. Tarhamu ??????? (imp. 2nd. p. sing.): Thou shows mercy. Irham ????? (prt. 2nd p.m. sing.) Have mercy. Turhamûna ??????????? (pip. 2nd p. plu.): You are or will be shown mercy. Rahmatun ????? (n.): Mercy. Ruhmun ????? (n.): Affection; Loving tenderness; Mercy; Regard to the rights of relationship. Arhâm ????? (n. plu.):Wombs. Arham ??????? (elative.): Most merciful of all. Râhimîn ???? (act. pic. m. plu.): Those who show mercy. Rahmân ????: Most gracious; Who gives without asking. This word is used in the Holy Qur’ân about 57 times. Rahîm ???????: Ever merciful; Who causes good results to follow of good deeds and prayer. This word is used about 115 times in the Holy Qur’ân. Marhamah ???? (n.): Compassion. (L; T; R; LL; Muhît; Ibn Qayyam)