السحر = sihir

----

!References 

!! EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

346. AS-SIHR (Magic) 2:102 (ر ح س)

Magic is illusion as indicated in the following verses of the Quran :-“............... so when (the magicians threw), their ropes and rods appeared to him (Musa (PBH)), due to their magic, as if they were in motion”. 20:66.

“So when they (the magicians) threw, they cast magic on the eyes of the people...............” 7:116. 

The ropes and rods did not move but the eyes of Musa (PBH) and the people around perceived them to be in motion, i.e. their eyes were illusioned. Magic according to the Quran is something unreal, illusionary and a deception. 

The word ‘Sahar’ is used for the point of time when the night departs and the day starts 54:34 probably because one is confused or under deception wh ether that particular time is night or day compared to ‘Fajar’ 2:187 when one is sure that the day has started. 

Magic is associated with lie 38:4 the opposite of which is truth 10:76, whereas ‘Miracles’ performed through messengers of Allah (SWT) 54:1-2 are not only real but proofs of their being messengers of Allah (SWT) 28:32 The phenomenon of magic is such that the eyes of viewer are deceived and nothing actually happens to him or the objects on which magic is presumed to have been performed. This rules out the possibility of messengers of Allah (SWT) becoming the objects of magic as presumed by Firawn regarding Musa (PBH) 17:101 and by those astray and the unjust, regarding prophet Muhammed (PBH) 17:47-48, 25:8-9. 

Illusions and deceptions do effect the human eye and perception, projecting an unrealistic picture on the mind. The sun appears to move around the earth but the fact is that the earth is moving around it. The whole mankind is involved in this illusion daily. A train moving on parallel adjacent rails gives an impression to people sitting in a stationary train as if their train was moving. If a disc is divided into 7 segments and each segment painted with rainbow colours in the order VIBGYOR and rotated fast, one sees white colour and not the individual 7 colours which make up ordinary light. Here again the eye is deceived. To one who does not understand science, the merger of 7 colours to give the effect of white colour on the rotating disc is magic . In this example too, it is not the colour of the disc that changes but it is the eye which is deceived and perceives the 7 colours as a single white colour. As soon as the rotation of the disc is stopped on e can see all the 7 colours intact and unchanged. 

The infidels called the messengers of Allah (SWT) magicians 10:2 and the miracles performed by them magic 27:13. In a miracle the change is in the object and what the eye sees is real, not a deception. 

A miracle is a phenomenon against the laws of nature known during its period of performance and it is performed by Allah (SWT) through His messengers (1) to provide a proof of their prophethood and (2) as a challenge that no one else can go against the laws of nature laid down by Allah (SWT). 

For Sulaymaan (PBH) Allah (SWT) ha d made the wind to move so fast that it covered one month’s journey in one morning or one evening 34:12 Allah (SWT) had made prophet Muhammed (PBH) to travel from Mecca to Jerusalem during one night 17:1. These speeds of travel were impossible according to the laws of nature known then, now we have Aeroplanes, rockets etc. which travel at very fast speeds but in accordance with the laws of nature known to us now.

The food and drink of a man were preserved for hundred years 2:259, a fact which could not be explained then but now we have deep freezes in which food and drinks co uld be preserved for long periods according to the laws of nature known to us now.

It is quite possible that in future Allah (SWT) may increase the knowledge of human beings to such an extent that they may perform things similar to other miracles reported in the Quran except things like creation, overcoming death etc. 10:34, 13:16, 56:58-74. 

In scientific experiments the change may or may not be deceptive, but it is factual as in the case of a miracle. This change is in accordance with the known laws of nature laid down by Allah (SWT) whereas in the case of a miracle although the change is real it is against the laws of nature known then. In the case of magic the change is deceptive and apparently against the laws of nature, this was the reason why some people considered miracles as magic and called messengers of Allah (SWT) magicians. 
