بروح = dengan roh pertolongan

----

!References 

!! EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

320. RUUH (Spirit) 2:87 (ح و ر)

Ruuhil qudus 16:102, Ruuhul amiin 26:192-196, Ruuh 42:52, Jibriil (PBH) 2:97 are different names of the same being who brought down the Quran on the heart of prophet Muhammed (PBH) by the order of Allah (SWT). The message contained in the Quran guides towards the path of Allah (SWT) 34:6, 4:175-176, leading to paradise 2:25, whereas the instigation's of the devil mislead human beings from this path and land them in hell 4:60, 7:18. Jibrill (PBH) and Ibliis the devil thus perform opposite jobs of propagating good and evil respectively. 

Jibriil (PBH) comes down by the command of Allah (SWT) on whom He wills of His servants with His message 16:2, 40:15, 17:85. He comes down with the angels too with a programme for every affair 97:4. In association with the angels he ascends towards Allah (SWT) in a period of 50,000 years 70:4 and on the day of resurrection he will stand with them in ranks 78:38 Jibriil (PBH) had acquired the form of a man and talked to Maryam (PBH) 19:17- 19. Jibriil (PBH) is thus always associated with good things and good people. He appears to be the power of right decision in contrast to Ibliis who is always associated with bad things and bad people who appears to be an evil force - the power of wrong decision. In view of this (1) the blowing of ‘Ruuhi’ into Adam (PBH) 15:29 could mean the bestowing of the power of right decision to mankind (2) the strengthening of Isa (PBH) with Ruuh-il qudus 2:87 could mean helping Isa (PBH) through Jibriil (PBH) to take right decisions due to which he was able to speak correct things even as a child 5:110 and (3) strengthening the believers with ‘Ruuh’ 58:22 could again mean helping them in ta king the right decision opposite to the devil’s party who will be losers 58:19. 
 
Allah (SWT) is Unique being One 112:1 whereas in His creation everything is in pairs 43:12, nothing is single like Him 112:4, few examples of pairs in the creation are man and women, day and night, good and evil. Millions of such examples can be given. 

In view of this too Jibrill (PBH) and Ibliis appear to be opposing forces which influence human beings. This interpretation is supported by the following statement of prophet Muhammed (PBH) reported by Ibn-i- Masood (R.A.) and collected by Muslim. 

The Prophet (PBH) had said, “There is not one among you who does not have an in charge on him accompanying him, one from among the Jinn and one accompanying him from among the angels”. (See word No. 42:1)

Man has thus been given the power to choose and decide which is probably referred to as ‘Amaanat’ meaning ‘Trust’ 33:72. Jibriil (PBH) and the messages sent through him help men in taking the right decision whereas Ibliis and his associates mislead them from this right decision. Ruuhi 15:29, Ruuhanaa 19:17 and Ruuhihii 32:9 translated as My spirit, Our spirit and His spirit respectively need not mean the soul or any part of Allah (SWT) just because possessive pronouns are used. Take the examples of the terms Malaa-’ika tihii, Kutubihii and rusulihii 4:136 meaning His angels, His books and His messengers respectively. We know that angels, books and messengers are not parts of Allah (SWT) they just belong to Him. Therefore ‘Ruuh’ could also be a separate being like angels and messengers who belong to Allah (SWT) but are not His part. 

No where in the Quran is the word Ruuh used in the sense of soul, the word ‘Nafs’ is used to mean soul which is taken away at the time of death along with life 39:42. 

Many people believe that Ruuh is the soul of Allah (SWT), just because of the possessive pronouns used with it. They argue that it was this soul of Allah (SWT) that was breathed into Adam (PBH) and we have inherited it through him. If we already possess the soul of Allah (SWT) then why should it be again put into Maryam (PBH) and why should Isa (PBH) and believers be supported with it? Many human beings go to different prohibited places like gambling houses, night clubs etc. and get involved in grave sins . How can one imagine committing grave and shameful sins with the soul of Allah (SWT) in him? If all human beings possess the soul of Allah (SWT) are we not dividing His Soul into different parts? Allah (SWT) has clearly indicated that He is a separate Being 58:7. 
 
In view of all this, Ruuh or Jibriil (PBH) appears to be a separate being which influences the psychical personalities of human beings like the angels and devils, helping them in taking the right decision and he belongs to Allah (SWT) in the sense that the whole creation belongs to Him. Ruuh may be something like knowledge, which too is a power belonging to Allah (SWT) ‘Ilmihii’ meaning His knowledge 2:255. Like knowledge Ruuh (the power of right decision) too is shared by human beings to different extents without itself getting reduced. 

Ruuh meaning the power of right decision was breathed into Adam (PBH), angels by bowing down before Adam (PBH) bowed down before Ruuh too and consequently they are with the believers helping them in taking the right decision. Had Ibliis too bowed down before Adam (PBH) he would have surrendered before the power of right decision i.e. the Ruuh and in that case he would not have been in a position to mislead human beings by instigating wrong decisions in them. Ruuh is always expressed in masculine gender and singular number. 