بنورهم = dengan cahaya mereka

----

!References 
!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

72. NUURIHIM (Their light) 2:17 (ر و ن)

External Nuur is ordinary light through which we are able to see the material world, the opposite of which is darkness 2:17, 6:1. When Nuur gets associated with heat as in the case of fire 2:17 or the sun light 10:5 it is known as Ziyaaa. We can easily move in Nuur i.e. light but cannot do so in darkness.

The Quran is called Nuuram-mubiin meaning a clear light 4:175 which guides us to move on the straight path leading to paradise 1:5-6, 2:2-5 illustrated by Prophet Muhammed (PBH) who is called ‘Siraajam- Muniira’ meaning a lamp giving light 33:45-46. 

The Holy Quran is stated to be N uur i.e. light. Scientifically it has been established that light exerts pressure. It is stated in the Quran: “Had we sent down this Quran on a mountain you would have seen it fallen down splitting asunder due to the fear of Allah” 59:21. 

It is reported that when portions of the Quran were sent down to the messenger (PBH) of Allah (SWT) while  he was riding a camel it used to sit down due to excess load because the messenger (PBH) of Allah (SWT) used to weigh more as experienced by Zaid bin Sabit (R.A) and he perspired heavily. (Seerat-un-Nabi by Sulaiman Nadvi 1928 vol3 pp302-303). This was due to the weight of the Nuur i.e. The Quran. Prophet Muhammed (PBH) reflected the Nuur of the Quran by implementing it practically and perfectly but in the process of propagating the Quranic message he suffered a lot. It is probably due to this suffering while  propagating the Nuur that he is called ‘Siraajam-muniira’ meaning a lamp giving light-the lamp burns i.e. suffers to give light to others. Allah (SWT) guides to His Nuur i.e. the Quran and Sunnah of our Prophet (PBH) whom He wills 24:35 and 40. One who is not guided by this internal light or Nuur i.e. the Quran and the Sunnah of our Prophet is in internal darkness wandering in error 24:40. 

The source of both the external and internal Nuur is Allah (SWT) 6:1, 4:175. Allah (SWT) is the Nuur of the skies and the earth 24:35 and the earth will shine with His Nuur on the day of resurrection 39:69 when Allah (SWT) will not disgrace the Prophet (PBH) and those who believed with him, their light (Nuur) will be running before them and on their right hands they will say, “Our Fosterer! perfect our light for us and protectively forgive us, you certainly have power over everything” 66:8. 

‘An-Nuur’ is one of the Attributes of Allah (SWT), the Quran is Nuuram-mubiin and Prophet Muhammed (PBH) Siraajam muniira. Those who are guided by these lights i.e. those who obey Allah (SWT) and His messenger (PBH) achieve the greatest achievement 33:71. 
