رب = Tuhan/Pemelihara

----

!References

----  

!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN

5. RABB (Fosterer) 1:1 (ب ب ر)

Rabb is someone who fosters a thing in such a manner as to make it attain one condition after another until it reaches its goal of completion (Raghib). Rabb is thus someone Who is the Owner, the Master, the Lord possessing supreme power and authority, One Who cherishes, sustains, nourishes, brings to maturity, maintains, manages, develops, evolves in short One Who fosters - The Fosterer. 

Allah (SWT) as ‘The Rabb’ is the Owner, the Master, the Cherisher, the Sustainer, the Fosterer of the whole universe 6:165, 45:36. He is the Lord possessing supreme power and authority over the throne of the universe 9:129 and does what He Wills 11:107. We have accepted Him as our Lord and Fosterer even before coming into this world 7:172-174. This is an experience we do not remember, but memory is not the basis of the truth of some event, it is a truth beyond denial that all of us were born but we do not remember the most important event of our life. He as our Fosterer, created us and ordered the angels to bow down before Adam 38:71-74. Bowing down of angels was probably putting all concerned energies under the control of man. In view of this the present human progress in science and technology may be due only to their control on energies known as angels in the language of religion and this human control on energies is a gift to humanity by Allah (SWT) and not its achievement. Allah (SWT) as the Fosterer provides for mankind whatever He Wills giving more to some and less to others 17:30. He guides human beings through His communications to selected persons known as prophets and messengers of Allah (SWT) who try to lead them to paradise and save them from hell 4:163-166, 7:203. We are required to seek only His help 1:4, 40:60 as He is our Fosterer 114:1, praise and glorify Him 32:15, declare His Greatness 2:185, believe in His sign s, fear Him, not associating any partner with Him 23:57-61, put our trust only in Him 16:99 and worship Him alone 40:64-65 seeking His protection from being influenced by the evil suggestions of the devil 23:97-98 because if we obey the devil we will land in hell 26:91-95. Allah (SWT) operates as Rabb exhibiting 30 of His Attributes. Some communities regard their priests, monks and prophets as their Rabb 9:31, 3:64. The fact is that Allah (SWT) is the only Rabb-Fosterer of His creation 1:1. 

----

!!Dictionary Of The Holy Qur'an, by Abdul Mannan Omar

-- Page 197 -- 

Rabba ??? ?????????????? To be a lord and master, collect, possess, rule, increase, complete, perfume, bring up, preserve, last, Rabb ???: Master; Chief; Determiner; Provider; Sustainer; Perfecter; Rewarder; Ruler; Creator; Maintainer; Reposer of properties; King of nature; Developer; Former of rules and laws of the growth; Regulariser; Foster of a thing in such a manner as to make it attain one condition after another until it reaches its goal of completion. The word Rabb ??? conveys not only the idea of fostering, bringing up or nourishing but also that of regulating, completing, accomplishing, cherishing, sustaining and bringing to maturity and evolution from the earliest state to that of the highest perfection. The Rabb ??? also means the originator of things and their combiner to create new forms and it means also the lawgiver who frames laws under which he propounds the shape which things must assume and the ratio and proportion in which various ingredients must combine with each other. He is the arranger of the different stages through which they have to pass on their way to perfection and completion. He sees to the necessary provisions for them in their journey. He is the Lord who puts things on the way of perfection. The word Rabb ??? thus signifies many processes which every entity passes through its course of creation and evolution before it reaches its final development. These meanings have not been forced and thrust upon this word. The lexicons of Arabic language speaks of all of them when they give the detailed meanings of the root Rabb ???. This word also points to the law of evolution in physical and spiritual worlds. The real principle of evolution is not at all inconsistent with belief in God. The process of evolution referred to here is not identical with the theory of Darwin. The word Rabb ??? points to the fact that a human being has been created for unlimited progress. We must admit that all other languages lack an equivalent of the word as they have no equivalent for the words Rahmân ????, Rahîm ????, Hamd ??, Allâh ??. Rabb ??? is not Abb ??? (Father), not a tribal deity nor the national God of any specially favoured race or people, nor any narrow “Lord of the hosts” or “Our father in heaven”.

Abb ??? (father) conveys the idea of a male God, but the word Rabb ??? is free from such thinking. God is more than a mother or a father. Personal pronoun in nominative or accusative or possessive case for Rabb ??? does not indicate that God is male, it is only a usage of language. Some things are m. and others as f., but it does not mean that they are in reality or as a matter of fact and in essence and quintessence, base, lineage, essentially, fundamentally, substantially, actually and factually, with their cause and effect naturally and originally are masculine or feminine. An Arabic word Dâr ??? (House) is m. and word Hâit ???? (wall) is f. but no one can say that they are actually and factually and with their cause and effect m. or f.

Ribbiyyûna ??????? plu .of Ribbiyyun ?????: Rabbi; Learned in divine law. Rabbânî ???????: Divine; God; Worshipper of the Lord; Faithful servant of the Lord. Rabâib ????? plu. of Rabîbatun ?????: Step daughters. Rabat ???, Rabawa ???? , Rabbî ?????: To nourish. Rabbayânî ??????? is a combination of Rabbiya ?????? and nî ???: They both nourished. Rubamâ ?????? (comb. of Ruba ???? and Mâ ??): Often; Frequently; Oft time; It may be. The difference between Rubba ????and Kam ?? is that Rubba is used for small in quantity and Kam for numerous. It will be wrong to say Rubba-ma ara’aituhû Kathîran??????????? ??????when one want to say “I saw him seldom”. Rubba mâ is added to indicate that after it a verb will be added. Some times Ruba ???? is used without assimilation or duplication of Bâ. The difference between Rubba ???? and Rubamâ ????is that after the later word there is a verb but not after Rubba. They say Rubba rajulin jâ’anî ?????????????? Rubbamâ jâ’anî zaidun ????????????? .

Rabb ??? (n.): Nourisher to perfection, (Lord is but a very poor substitute for this Arabic word). This word has been used in the Holy Qur’ân about 969 times. Ribbiyyûn ?????? (n. plu.): Godly men; Worshippers of the Lord. Rabâib ????? (n. plu.): Stepdaughters. Rabbâniyyûn ????????? / Rabbâniyyîn ???????? (n.plu.): Divines; Teachers of divine knowledge. Arbâb ????? plu. of Rabb. Rubamâ ?????? (comb. of Ruba ??? and Mâ ??): Often; Frequently; Oft time; It may be. (15:2). Rabbayânî ???????: They both nourished (17:24). (L; T; R; LL)