سليمان = Sulaiman

----

!References 

!! EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 
 
345. SULAYMAAN (PBH) (Soloman) 2:102 (م ل س)

Sulaymaan (PBH) : was Dawood’s (PBH) son and inherited his kingdom (38:30 and 27:16) and he was a prophet like Dawood (PBH) who was given the Divine scripture Zabur (4:163) Dawood and Sulaymaan (PBT) were kings as well as messengers of Allah (SWT) which shows that saintly people need not always be poor. Sulaymaan (PBH) was given knowledge, wisdom and judgment (21:78-79 and 27:15). His army consisted of Jinn, human beings and birds (27:17). The wind was at his command (21:81). The devils dived for him and did other works too (21:82) and the Jinn worked before him constructing fortresses, images, reservoirs, cooking pots, bowl s etc. (34:12-13). It appears that copper was used during his period (34:12). He knew the speech of birds (27:16). The bird hoopoe had informed him of a woman who ruled over a place called Saba, whose inhabitants were sun worshipers. Sulayman (PBH) sent a message to her and her people through hoopoe to come to him and surrender as a Muslim. On his invitation she came to him and surrendered as a Muslim.(27:20-44)
 
When Sulayman (PBH) inquired in his court as to who could get the throne of the Queen of Saba before she came to him surrendering, one Jinn said that he could bring it before Sulayman (PBH) before he rose from his court. But one who ha d the knowledge of the book (Kitab also means law) or the laws of nature said that he would bring it to him before he blinks his eyes, and he did so (27:38-42). This shows that the Thrown was probably transported from Saba to Sulaymaan’s (PBH) court at light like speed. There are reports that scientists are engaged in making an effort to transport materials at light like speeds. This mode of transportation is known as ‘Teleparcel ’. It is said that the object to be transported would first be converted to its electrons, neutrons, protons etc. and then these atomic particles would be made to travel at light like speed, on reaching their destination these particles would be resembled into the original object. Right now we receive television signals from thousands of miles within a fraction of a second, in view of which ‘Teleparcel’ might not be impossible. The important point to be noted here is that the present knowledge of the high speed of atomic particles and photons (3 lakh kilometers per second) appears to have existed even during the days of Sulaymaan (PBH) who himself was given many miraculous powers by Allah (SWT); like control over wind, birds, jinn, devils etc. 