عيسى = Isa

----

!References 

!! EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

318. ISA (PBH) 2:87 (ى س ع)

Birth of Maryam (PBH) 

When the wife of Imran said “My Fosterer! I vow to you that which is in my womb to be set free (for your service) so accept (it) from me. You are certainly Hearing, Knowing. Then when she delivered it she said, “My Fosterer! I have delivered it a female”. And Allah knew best what she had delivered and the male is not like the female. “And I have named her Maryam and I seek your protection for her and her offspring, from the devil, the outcast.” So her Fosterer accepted her with a good acceptance and made her (Maryam) grow into a good growth and gave her into the guardianship of Zakariyya............. 3:35-37

‘And when the angels said, “O Maryam! Allah has certainly chosen you and cleaned you and chosen you above the women of the worlds. O Maryam! be devoutly obedient to your Fosterer and prostrate and bow down with those who bow down 3:42-43. Maryam (PBH) informed of Isa’s (PBH) birth:

When the angels said “O Maryam! certainly Allah conveys to you the good news of a word (Kalimatin) from Him, his name is the Messiah, Isa, the son of Maryam, worthy of regard in the world and the hereafter and from among those who are near (to Allah). And he will talk to human beings (while) in the cradle and (in) old age, and (he will be) from among the righteous.” (She) said, “O my Fosterer! how can I have a son when man has not touched me?” He sa id, like that, Allah creates what He wills when He decrees an affair then, He says to it only, ‘Be’, so it is. 3:45-47 
 
Miraculous birth of Isa (PBH) without a father ‘And mention in the book (about) Maryam when she withdrew from her people to an eastern place and took a veil (to screen herself) from them. Then We sent to her Our spirit (Ruhina) so he (Jibreel) appeared to her like a balanced man. She said, “I seek the protection of the Beneficent (Allah) from you if you are one who guards (against evil).” He said, “I am only a messenger (Rasool) of your Fosterer that I may grant to you a pure son.” She said, “How can there be a son to me when man has not touched me and I am not one who has exceeded the limits?” He said, “(It will Be) like that. Your Fosterer says that is easy for Me and that We will make him a sign for mankind and a mercy from Us, and it is an affair decided.” So she bore him then withdrew with him to a distant place. And the pains of child birth drove her to a palm tree. She said, “I wish I had died before this and had become forgotten (as something) to be forgotten.” Then she was called from beneath her, “Do not grieve, your Fosterer has made a rivulet beneath you, and shake the trunk of the date palm towards you, making ripe dates to fall down to you. Then eat and drink and cool (your) eye and if you see any man then say :I have vowed a fast to the Beneficent, therefore I will not speak to any man today,” Then she came to her people carrying him (Isa). They said ‘ O Maryam! you have come with a strange thing. O sister of Harun! your father was not a bad man nor your mother was one who exceeded the limits,” so she pointed towards him (Isa, for the explanation). They said “How can we talk to one who is a child in the cradle?” 

He (Isa) said, “I am a servant of Allah, He has given me the book and made me a prophet.....................................”, such was Isa, the son of Maryam. (This is a) statement of the fact about which they doubt. It is not befitting to Allah that He should take to Himself a son, glory be to Him, when He decrees an affair, He says to it only, “Be,” so it is. 19:16-35 

Maryam’s chastity certified by Allah Taala ‘And Maryam the daughter of Imran, who guarded her chastity, so We breathed into it (her body), from Our spirit and she testified to the truth of her Fosterer and His books and she was among the obedient ones, 66:12 

Isa’s (PBH) birth compared w i th Adam’s (PBH) 

The likeness of Isa, with Allah is certainly as the likeness of Adam. (He) proportioned him from the soil, then said to him, “Be,” so he was (created). 3:59. 

Isa (PBH) is not Allah’s son as Christians Claim 
 
‘And they say, “The Beneficent (Allah) has taken (to Himself) a son, “You have indeed come with a disastrous thing. The skies are about to cleave asunder due to it and the earth to split asunder and the mountains to fall down in pieces, that they invoke a son for the Beneficent (Allah). And it does not suit the Beneficent (Allah) that He should take (to Himself) a son, there is no one in the skies and the earth but he comes to the Beneficent (Allah) as a servant.” 19:88-93. 

Isa (PBH) strengthened through Jibreel (PBH) 

“............... And We gave to Isa, the son of Maryam clear proofs and strengthened him with the holy spirit (Jibreel (PBH)) .............. 2:87 

Isa (PBH) messenger of Allah, His w ord and a spirit from Him, predicts about Muhammed (SAWS). 

‘............. and We made Isa, the son of Maryam to follow (earlier messengers) and gave him the Injeel..........” 57:27 

‘And (remember) when Isa, the son of Maryam said, “O children of Israel! I am a messenger of Allah sent to you, confirming that which is before me of the Torah and conveying the good news of a messenger who will come after me his name being Ahmed (Muhammed)............” 61:6 

‘O owners of the book! do not commit excesses in your religion, and do not say about Allah (anything) other than the truth. The Messiah, Isa, the son of Maryam was only a messenger of Allah and His word which He had communicated to Maryam and a spirit from Him (word ‘Be communicated through Jibreel to Maryam), so believe in Allah and His messengers and do not say, ‘Three, it will be better for you if you stop (saying it). Allah is only One God (and not one of the three as Christians claim). It is far from His glory that He should have a son for Himself. Whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth is His and Allah is sufficient as a Trustee. The Messiah does not disdain to be a servant of Allah.............” 4:171-172 

Miracles performed through Isa (PBH) 

‘When Allah will say, “O Isa, the son of Maryam! remember My favour on you and on your mother, when I strengthened you with the holy spirit you were made to speak to people in the cradle (childhood) and in old age, and when I taught you the book and the wisdom and the Torah and the Injeel, and when you proportioned from the clay a form like that of a bird by My permission then you breathed in it so it became a bird by My permission, and you healed the blind by birth and the leper by My permission, and when you brought out the dead by My permission and when I withheld the children of Isreal from (harming) you when you came to them with cl ear proofs, then those who did not believe from among them said; “This is nothing but clear magic.” 5:110 

Isa (PBH) did not claim that he w a s God. 

‘And when Allah will say, “O Isa, the son of Maryam! did you say to mankind: Take me and my mother as two gods, besides Allah?” He will say, “Glory be to you. It does not be fit me that I should say something for which I have no right (to say). Had I said it then you would have known it..........” 5:116 

Isa (PBH) w a s neither crucified nor k illed, he w a s raised towards Allah (SWT) and w ill come back before the day of resurrection ‘When Allah said, “O Isa! I will take you back and raise you towards Myself and clean you from those who do not believe, and towards the day of resurrection, I will make those who follow you, above those who do not believe, then towards Me you will all return then I will judge between you in (matters) in which you disagreed”. 3:55 ‘And he (Isa) is certainly the knowledge (a sign) for the hour of doom..........’ 43:61 ‘And (We punished them) due to their infidelity, and due to the great false charge on Maryam in their speech and due to their, saying, “We killed Messiah, Isa, the son of Maryam, messenger of Allah”. And they did not kill him nor did they crucify him, but for them, he (the one crucified) was made to resemble (Isa), and those who differ in it are certainly in a doubt about it. They do not have any knowledge of it, they follow nothing but conjecture and they certainly did not kill him. No, Allah raised him towards Himself and Allah is Mighty, Wise. And there is not a single person from among the owners of the book but he will definitely believe in him before his death, and on the day of resurrection he will be a witness on them”. 4:156-159 

Summary : First angels inform Maryam (PBH) about the birth of a son on which she expresses her surprise as no man had touched her and Allah (SWT) Himself certified her chastity. Isa (PBH) appears to be the personification of the word ‘Kun’ meaning ‘Be’ from Allah (SWT) communicated to Maryam (PBH) through the spirit Jibreel (PBH). This is probably what is meant by calling him a ‘Word and spirit from Him.’ Isa (PBH) is always called the son of Maryam (PBH) because he did not have a father and he was not the son of Allah as Christians claim. Maryam must have gone through the whole process of child birth and during the period when Isa (PBH) was in her womb she must have eaten the food from the earth which was food for Isa (PBH) too. Probably in this sense he is said to have been proportioned from the said (Turab) which supplies plant nutrients. Isa (PBH) was sent as a messenger of Allah Taala to Bani Israel and was made to perform a number of miracles as proofs of his prophethood. He was given the Injeel, he certified to the truth of earlier prophets and informed about the coming of prophet Muhammed (PBH) after him. He never claimed that he was God or the son of God. He was neither crucified nor killed but was raised towards Allah Taala, someone resembling him was crucified. He will be sent back before the day of resurrection, which is also mentioned in many sayings of prophet Muhammed (PBH). 