قدير = Maha Kuasa

----

!References 
!!EXPLANATORY DICTIONARY OF THE HOLY QURAN 

97. QADIIR (Powerful) 2:20 (ر د ق) -- '''''PLEASE HELP TO VERIFY ARABIC WRITINGS IN THIS REFERENCE''''' --

Following verses of the Quran help in understanding the meanings conveyed by the derivatives of these alphabets. 

Precise measure (amount, size) : - ... Allah measures out  ُرﱢﺪَﻘُﻱ the night and the day... . 73:20 

The lengths of the day and night are so precisely measured out that the times of sunrise and sunset on any day of a year are the same every year.

He governs the affair from the sky to the earth, then it will ascend to Him in a day, the measure  ُﻩُراَﺪْﻘِﻡ of which is a thousand years of that which you count. 32:5 

Capacity, power: - There is no sin on you if you divorce women while you have not yet touched them or settled for them a settlement (dowry), but provide for them, (this is incumbent) on the rich in accordance with his power (capacity  ُرَﺪَﻗ) and on the straitened in accordance with his power, (capacity  ُرَﺪَﻗ) a provision recognized (to be good) a duty incumbent on the doers of good. 2:236. 

Allah sets forth a similitude: a slave under someone’s control, having no power  ُرِﺪْﻘَﻱﻻ on anything… 16:75 

Programme, destiny: - It is certainly Allah Who splits the grain and the date stone (seed). He brings out the living from the dead and He brings out the dead from the living. That is Allah, then how are you turned away (from the truth)? Splitter of the day break, and He has made the night for rest and the sun and the moon for keeping an account (of time). That is the programme  ُﺮْﻱِﺪْﻘَﺕ of the Mighty, the Knowing. 6:95-96 

And a sign to them is the dead earth. We give life to it and bring out from it grain so they eat of it. And We have made therein gardens of date palms and grapes and We have caused the springs to gush forth therein, that they may eat of its fruit, and their hands did not make it. Will they not then be grateful? Glory be to Him Who created pairs of everything, of that which the earth grows and of themselves and of that which they do not know. And a sign for them is the night, We cause the day to slip off from it, when (again) they are in darkness. And the sun moves on for the time (and) in the space (appointed for) it. That is the programme  ُﺮْﻱِﺪْﻘَﺕ of the Mighty, the Knowing. 36:33-38 

And the moon, We have programmed  ُﻩﺎَﻧْرﱠﺪَﻗ for it stages (in space and time) till it returns like and old dry palm branch. 36:39 

Say, ‘What! Do you not believe in Him Who created the earth in two periods, and do you set up equals with Him? That is the Fosterer of the worlds.’ And He made in it mountains (through the deposition of material) from the surface of it, and blessed therein, and He destined  َرﱠﺪَﻗ in it its food in four periods, balanced (according to the requirement) of the seekers. Moreover, He set the balance towards the sky which was smoke. So He said to it and to the earth, ‘Come willingly or unwillingly.’ They both said, ‘We come willingly,’ so He ordained them (to get organized into) seven skies (higher levels), in two periods, and communicated in each sky its affair. And We adorned the sky of the world with lamps (stars) and provided protection. That is the pr ogramme of the Mighty, the Knowing. 41:9-12 

And Allah knows that which every female bears and that which the wombs absorb and that which they grow; and with Him, everything is according to a programme  ٍراَﺪْﻘِﻡ. QS 13:8

Did We not create you from a fluid (which is) weakened after vigour? Then We made it to stay in a place till (the fulfillment of) the known programme  ٍرَﺪَﻗ thus We programmed ﺎَﻧْرَﺪَﻘَﻓ for We are Excellent Programers  َنْوُرِدﺎَﻘْﻟَا. QS 77:20-23 

He created him (man) from a sperm, then programmed ُﻩَرﱠﺪَﻘَﻓ him (to follow a certain path) then He eased that path for him. 80:19-20 

We have destined ﺎَﻧْرﱠﺪَﻗ death among you... 56:60 65:3
 
We have certainly created everything with a programme. 54:49

Allah has indeed made a programme اًرْﺪَﻗ for everything. 65:3
 
And He created everything then programmed for it a programme اًﺮْﻱِﺪْﻘَﺕ ُﻩَرﱠﺪَﻘَﻓ ٍءْﻰَﺵ ﱠﻞُآ َﻖَﻠَﺧ َو QS 25:2

This programme for everything in the universe is probably written down in the guarded tablet ٍظْﻮُﻔْﺤًّﻡ ٍحْﻮَﻟ 85:22 and sent down annually for implementation during ‘La itat – ul – qadr’ as indicated in 97:1-finish 

We certainly sent it down during the night of Al Qadr. And what will make you realize what the night of Al Qadr is? The night of Al Qadr is better than a thousand months. The angles and the spirit come down during this night by the permission of their Fosterer with (a programme for) every affair. Peace it is till the appearance of dawn 97:1-finish.

Opposite word: - Straiten as opposed to enlarge 

Allah  ُﻂُﺴْﺒَﻱ enlarges the provision for whom He wills and straitens ُرِﺪْﻘَﻱ (measured)…. QS 13:26 

Association with other words:- 

Glorify the name of your Fosterer, the Most High Who created then set the equilibrium ىاﱠﻮَﺴَﻓ, and Who programmed then guided. ىاَﺪَﻬَﻓ (to the programme). 87:1-3 


Summary and conclusion:- 

Allah’s is the kingdom of the skies and the earth and that which is in them and He has power  ٌﺮْﻱِﺪَﻗ over everything. 5:120 

Do they not consider that Allah Who created the skies and the earth is able  ٌرِدﺎَﻗ to create their like? 17:99 

...and Allah is the Holder of power اًرِﺪَﺘْﻘُﻡ QS 45:1-finish over everything. QS 18:1-finish
 
And they have not estimated Allah with the estimation ِﻩِرْﺪَﻗ due to Him. And the earth will be totally in His grip on the day of resurrection, with the skies rolled up in His right hand. Glorified is He and high (above) that which they associate as partners (with Him). 39:67 

Allah (SWT) as  ٌﺮْﻱِﺪَﻘْﻟَا is the Possessor of power, as ُرِﺪَﺘْﻘُﻤْﻟَا He exhibits this power and as  ُرِدﺎَﻘْﻟَا he holds power over everything. In view of the three important meanings indicated by the derivatives of ر د ق
 
1. Measure, 2. Capability and 3. Programming or allotting a destiny, Allah (SWT) precisely pr ogrammes everything for the purpose for which He has created it and strictly guides it to follow its prescribed programme or destiny prescribed by Him. 

The power and capability associated with the derivatives of this word are the power and capability of measuring out, programming or prescribing destinies. Laws of nature framed by Allah (SWT) can be considered as the Taqdir, destiny or the programme to be followed by everything in His creation. These laws of nature cannot be violated by any one, but Allah (SWT) Himself can go against them , if He wills to as He does when He makes His prophets perform miracles like changing a wooden staff to a live snake or converting a form of a bird moulded in clay, to a live bird. These miracles performed against the laws of nature by Moses (PBH) and Jesus (PBH) were not only proofs of their being prophets and messengers of Allah but also an exhibition of the power of Allah and a challenge to humanity in general that no one else can perform miracles going against the laws of nature, without Allah’s permission. 

These laws of nature, destiny or programme of everything in the creation of Allah appears to be recorded in guarded tablet. QS 85:22 or the source book. This book appears to contain the time and place of every event that is to take place in the universe, everywhere, each moment involving everything… And every affair has a (set) time/place of happening. 54:3

Allah abolishes what He wills and keeps established (what He wills) and with Him is the original prescription (book). 13:39 

The above verse indicates that destiny is not the final word, if Allah wills He can abolish what He Himself has destined, He can even advance or postpone the time of an event appointed by Him.
 